Block Chain Notes --zjf

Chapter 1 Introduction
Satoshi Nakamoto invented in 2008,
Total supply: 21 million

Digital: cannot be physically made, generated or transferred electronically
Decentralized: not controlled by any country/organization
Revolutionary: transactions allow anonymity
Global: borderless, can be used anywhere

Technology
1 Hash Function
  Takes string as input, and fixed size as output
  Easy to verify Y given x: Y=H(x);
  Hard to invert (find x given Y)
  SHA-256 (inversion running time O(2^256))
Message(myfile.txt) --> Hash Algorithm(SHA-256) --> Hash Value (...)

2 Digital Signature/ Public Key/ Private Key/ Public Address
  Private Key derives Public Key and Digital Signature
  Public Key derives multiple public address
    Bitcoin address-->Public address  Private Key(Wallet Import Format)

3 Nodes
  Functions bitcoin network
  Maintain a copy of blockchain
  Miners, Core
Global Bitcoin Nodes Distribution: 12026 nodes 

4 Wallet
  Stores private keys, public keys and addresses
  Paper/ Desktop/ Online/ Hardware wallet
Bitcoin address--load and verify--Private Key-->Spend

5 Transaction
  Digitally signed message
  A pays 1 bitcoin to B
     A signs(1 BTC+prev TX+B’s address)
     B verifies his ownership
  Public transaction history, private identity
  Multiple inputs, max 2 outputs

6 Double Spending
  Concurrently send a single unit of bitcoin to 2 different sources
  Need sb to verify --- Miners
     Once the first transaction accepted, the second one will be rejected
     By running address history
  Time stamp Server
     Node will accept first received block and keep the other
     Work on the longest

7 Mining
  A process by which transactions are added into blockchain (ledger)
  Done by solving puzzles using powerful computing chips.

  Miners are rewarded--
Bitcoin after confirming a block
  (initially 50, currently 12.5, halves every 210k blocks)
Transaction fee
Cumulative BTC in circulation now nearly 14,000,000

  Verify Transaction
Each sender has enough balance and hasn’t double spent
Transaction itself is valid
  Proof-of-work (PoW)
Incrementing a nonce to find a block hash with required zero bits
Prev hash+transaction+nonce-->SHA-256-->required hash value
Random brute force is the only way (cannot reverse SHA-256)
Average work required exponential as 0 bits increases
  Difficulty
Difficulty adjusted by moving average 2016 blocks(2 weeks)
1 PH/s (Peta hash per second) is 1,000,000,000,000,000 (one quadrillion)
S9 13.5 TH/s (Terra hash per second) S9, more than 6 years to mine a block
    
How Block Chain Network Works
1 New transactions are broadcast to all nodes
2 Each node collects some new verified transactions into a block, and find PoW
3 Each node works on finding a difficult PoW (nonce) for its block
4 When a node finds a PoW, it broadcasts the block to all nodes
5 Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and not already spent
6 Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash

Basic Problems
1 Security
  51% attack
The ability of sb controlling a majority of network hash rate
Delay transaction confirmation
Reverse/revise his own transactions(double spent)
  Attacker’s dilemma
Only be able to modify recent transactions
Cannot change other’s transaction
Cannot create coin out of air
Attack vs. Block reward

2 Potential Problems
  Vulnerable to attacks
  Block size 1MB, limit # of transactions
  Transaction confirmation slow, average 10 min per block, 2-3 transactions per second (VISA 24000)
  High transaction fees

Solutions
  Fork
  Lightening network
  RSK

Solutions
1 Fork
  SegWit vs. SegWit2X
Soft fork(backward compatible, temporary) vs. hard fork
Moving signature to end of block, increasing size from 1M to 2M
  Bitcoin Cash
=first fork: maintain bitcoin network
cannot make each block too big: total size...
increase block size-- more transaction fee--miners want money--miners want to claim much faster transaction speed
Miners vs. Core
8MB block size
Bitcoin Gold -- decentralized mining (equihash), good GPU
Bitcoin Dimond -- 210mln, 8MB block, 5time faster, encrypt balance(X13), 10 times supply
Around 20 other forks

2 Lightening Network
  ---LN works by moving the value from the ownership of the bitcoins to the promise of ownership of the bitcoins
  Open a payment channel
  Record on block chain
  Instant payment
  Close the channel, report to block chain
  
  Seems like credit payment: instant payment, scalability, low cost, cross block chains
  Currently around 977 nodes running 1,827 channels on the LN
Payment channel: channel is not transaction, but private ordering.
Each party deposit 1, safe, when channel close, the safe channel is open you get what you have,
A and B send money quickly to others. Record on block chain. Within a month, all transaction between two are not dealt, time is up, channel is closed, find the final, report. 
Low cost, but higher maybe? Solution to big coin, 

3 RSK (Rootstock)
  ---A smart contract platform that is connected to the bitcoin block chain through sidechain technology
2-way peg to bitcoin --> smart bitcoin, without disturbing miners
Scales to 100 transactions per second without sacrificing decentralization
Instant payment, allow creating blocks at 10 seconds average interval

Questions:

1 Bitcoin is decentralized, but the hashrate & control is centralized to a few large miners, only large miners can benefit. So the system is centralized?
2 What incentivize people to run a full node? I can mine bitcoin without running a full node.
3 If bitcoin price does not grow fast enough, mining difficulty will drop, and mining will eventually become unprofitable for less efficient due to halving rewards. So small miners will leave and it will weaken bitcoin security?
4 How to realize transfer 0.5 bitcoin technologically?
5 In the lightening network. If one defaults, how to charge back?  
6 How to add new bitcoins during mining (only mining?), how does the minner get rewarded? When mining a new block, can the miner write new coins in the block?
7 What is the difference between other digital currency with Bitcoin? i.e. Litecoin, ETH
8 If I have 100 BTC, can I sell them together at current price?
9 If exchanging bitcoin for real currency, how to gurantee no fraud, i.g. I get bitcoin but don't give back dollar or vice versa?
10 How to apply equity quant-trading strategies on bitcoin market? There are a lot of people doing this, how’s the performance?
11 For the channels of lightning network, does the number of channel have limit? i.g. number means the number of transactions happening per second? 
12 Any applications of the idea of block chains to some other domains (i.e. other than crypto currency)?
13 I resemble instant payment = credit card, so what’s after default?
14 Not understanding: compare advantages and disadvantages between hashgraph, merkle tree & block chain
15 Besides computing power, what other factors, such as network latency or storage performance, would affect bitcoin/block chain mining/verification?
16 About security: bitcoin is ensured by computing power, because individual is hard to challenge all the network, so it is safe. But, if apply block chain in other fields, when the network power is limited, how to maintain security?
17 How anonimity?Transaction exposed, send coin--get ip exposed, radically can track you in certain media address?
18 Who issues the bitcoin if there is no central party, as the number of bitcoin is increasing every year assuming bitcoin can not generated from air?
19 Technologically wants to understand, such as algorithms for concentrating on hash power, new ideas on block chains.
